Take the weapon, Daniel.
Did you hear that?
- What's going on?
- Don't talk. Get your shoes.
Please, stop. You're hurting me.
- There's no time.
- Plea--
You need to keep up.
I can't.
What is the matter with you?
I don't know. I don't feel good.
Let me see you.
Is it bad?
Where are your words now?
What can you tell him?
-This man who loved you...
- Travis.
...who died believing your lies.
You tell him the truth.
That you looked inside yourself,
deep into the place where
your soul should be
and you found it empty.
You tell him that!
You love no one!
You believe in nothing.
No, that's enough.
That's enough.
Why are you here? Who are you?
His friend.
You are his fool.
So was my son.
Celia, I'm so sorry.
- Ofelia.
-Papa?
- What's wrong?
I'm here.
Are you okay?
Yeah.
Thank god.
Have you seen Chris?
I can't find him.
Help me look for him. I'm
gonna check outside.
- Can you just--
- No.
Travis, he had a knife.
The shot went off,
he was in our room
standing over me with a knife.
Stop. He would never hurt you.
Do you think I'm lying?
I have to bury him.
You don't deserve to bury him.
It's what he wanted.
What he wanted?
What he wanted was
what you promised.
This man, my
beautiful, stupid son,
wanted you!
He is not your son.
Celia, hey, he didn't mean that.
- He didn't mean that.
- Stay out of it.
They need some time. Please.
You're going to let this
boy do your begging?
Fine.
Now Thomas can get everything
you have to offer.
An empty hole, some dirt.
You have one day.
The sun comes down,
I want you gone.
All of you.
Chris!
Pack whatever supplies we
can carry-- food, water,
anything you can get your hands on
without drawing attention to yourself.
And we need the truck to
get back to the boat.
Did you see where
he put the keys?
I'm not going back to the boat.
Alicia, we don't have a choice.
That sun sets, they'll
force us off the land.
- Mom-- - These people
are not our friends.
Get it through your heads.
Both of you. This
place is dangerous.
That woman is dangerous.
She's just upset. I
can talk to her.
You stay away from Celia.
Do you hear me?
Travis is coming over that hill.
When he does, that's
when we move.
What if he doesn't?
He is coming back.
- Get out of my house!
- I'm looking for my son.
- Get out!
- Easy, easy.
Okay.
Myba.
Please.
Water.
Thank you.
My son.
I'm looking for my son.
I don 't understand.
I'm sorry.
It's my feet.
- Thanks.
Oh, my God.
Nick.
What do you see?
Look at him.
Is this death?
What you see is my son.
Changed, yes, but
no less my son.
My Luis.
Who you brought back to me.
Take him to the others.
Watch him careful/y.
Or are afraid to.
You are not.
VVhy?
I don't know.
You belong here
with us, Nicholas.
With me.
-Smy
- What about my family?
You want to do the right thing.
But they are not like you.
Celia, they are not bad people.
And when they look upon
my son, what do they see?
Go on, say it.
A monster.
Is that what we call
these creatures
who can't control their
nature, their hunger?
And what do we call
those who destroy them?
The ones who kill
without thinking.
Which is the monster?
They will learn.
My family won 't hurt anyone.
They will be safe here.
You can't change them.
Please.
You will be responsible for their
actions while they are here.
- Yes.
Tell your family they
are welcome to stay.
But not Victor Strand.
He doesn't belong here.
He never did.
This is not apocalypse.
This is our beginning, Nicholas.
The end of death itself.
Life eternal.
Don't do this.
Don't put him in the ground.
What?
This place is unholy.
It's infected.
Even the dirt.
The walls in this place.
That woman, her dead.
Hey.
Your friend, he won't rest.
He'll come back for you.
You don't believe?
lfl did, I'd be
with him right now.
He will return.
They return, but
they're not the same.
You're not the same.
And they hate you for it.
What's wrong with you?
Don't put him in the ground.
Brought you these.
No Travis yet?
He'll be back soon. Don't worry.
I worry.
I know.
You're different.
Ever since we left LA.
l was different before that.
You know what I mean.
I don't understand this fascination
that you have with them.
- With the dead.
- They're not dead.
- Fine, infected.
- They're not infected.
- The word doesn't matter.
- Doesn't matter to you.
- What do you want me to call them?
- Their names.
What is going on with you?
The day you were
swarmed at the beach,
you come back all covered
in God knows what.
You don't change.
And then you go
ashore at the border.
You're alone for hours there.
Are you listening to yourself?
Then you do this.
You risk your life
just to bring that thing back.
You're talking like
I'm using again.
Is it Celia? Did she
put you up to it?
I can't talk to you
when you're like this.
Like what? I'm trying
to understand.
She wanted her son back.
You can understand that!
Right?
So that's what I did, Mom.
| just brought him back.
And now we get to stay.
You know, I'd do
the same for you.
What?
I can bring Travis back.
- No.
- Mom, listen, nothing can touch me.
- You don't know that.
- I do.
When I was on the beach, I came
face-to-face with one of them
and I didn't feel fear,
I didn't feel hate.
| just knew I wasn't
going to die.
Not there, not that way.
I move among them, Mom.
Invisible.
lwill not die.
- Ofelia. Ofelia.
- Yes?
Come with me.
Keep your eyes down. Don't talk.
- Why?
- She's waiting for us.
- Who is?
- Your mother.
She's at the gate.
She's outside.
- Papa, it's going to be okay.
- What are you doing?
Did you hear what I said?
This place is evil!
- If we stay, we die.
- We have no place to go, Papa.
- Let me go!
- Take her away!
Easy!
Easy! That's enough!
Wait! Papal
Okay, don't move. Hold still.
I know what you're
going through.
I know what he meant to you.
What is it that you want?
Nick.
- He's just--
- I'm not the boy's daddy.
| just thought that-- I don't
know what's happening to him.
Yes, you do.
You take a vulnerable
kid, an addict,
drop him in a mess
of death and doubt,
it won't be long before he starts
looking for something to cling to.
In comes Mama Celia
with her authentic
Mexican cuisine,
side of quasi-religious
voodoo bullshit and voila.
You bet your ass she's
got her hooks in him.
This isn't how I
imagined us parting.
Where will you go?
Back to the boat. Ha.
If there is a boat.
You interested?
I can't leave without Travis.
You should stay, take
care of your own.
| wish there was
something I could do.
Look at you.
Getting all sentimental.
We were the means to
each other's end.
We helped each other get here.
It was a useful arrangement.
Let's not go confusing things
with vague terms like friend.
Take this and go, please.
Thanks.
Your son? Is that your son?
Ramon.
I'm looking for my son.
He's about this tall.
Thin. He's got black hair.
Have you seen him?
He went this way.
To the east.
Este? East? So he went that way?
Do you really don 't understand me?
He went in this direction.
If you hurry you'll catch up with him.
Somebody in there?
Please.
He says he will hurt my boy
if I don't make you leave.
Okay.
Why can't you just let me go?
We worked 40 years for the Abigails.
We cooked for them
and changed their bedclothes.
/ raised her son
as if I'd gave birth to him myself.
as if I'd gave birth to him myself
Thomas was my son,
without any doubt.
Today / lay my son to rest.
I'm not a housekeeper anymore.
We all start a new life.
The sins we committed,
the lies we told,
the hearts that we betrayed...
That's all forgotten now.
The world was reborn.
Now our work starts,
in remembrance of him.
We're just going to let
them throw him out?
Alone?
What do you want me to do?
It's time for you to leave.
I'm not done.
Help him.
I won't have violence here.
Let him punish himself.
You should hurry.
It's a long way
back in the dark.
Where's my father?
He is safe. Resting now.
- I want to see him.
- I can't allow that.
- The man he out almost lost his eye.
- That wasn't his fault.
He's a danger to
himself, Ofelia.
He's a danger to you.
How long has he been unwell?
I can't help him if
you don't talk to me.
- He's not a bad man.
- Of course not.
Everything will be fine. Don 't move.
I've seen the way
they look at me.
Like I'm disgusting.
Like I'm a monster.
You're not a monster.
You sure about that?
Look at the boy, Chris.
He '8 scared.
Chris!
Chris! Chris.
Go ahead! Come on! Come on!
I should have helped you.
Look at me.
I'm no good.
You must be hungry.
A ver.
Vamos.
You think I would
poison a good pozole?
Who would do such a thing?
I am not the killer here.
| see the way you look at me.
If I didn't know any better, I'd
say that's hatred in your eyes.
But I am old enough to
know fear when | see it.
Me, too.
I'm not afraid of you.
Not of me.
You're afraid of the dead.
Those creatures you keep,
they are an abomination,
an act against God.
It's not my dead you fear, viejo.
It is your own.
Look at me, Daniel.
How many?
Too many.
During the nights...
you called their names.
The names of those
who had names and that you knew.
They haunt you.
They hate you for your silence.
I heard your confession.
You were begging for forgiveness.
Don 't die with a tortured soul.
Confess your sins.
Ask for forgiveness.
Bring your tortures to an end.
And mine, too.
You are dying. Can you feel it?
Speak while you
still have words.
All your sins.
Including those
you never wanted to admit.
Even towards me.
l have nothing to tell you.
l have nothing to say to you.
I don't want you
to worry, Daniel.
I will take care of you.
There is a place for you here.
What are you doing here?
I came to bring you back.
She really needs you.
She's hurting.
- Come on.
- So does he.
N0, I didn't.
And you didn't ﬁnd me.
He needs his father.
- Travis.
-Come on, man.
I owe him that, don't I?
Tell her you never saw us.
Chris can't come back, not now.
I can't come back.
You're making a mistake.
Happens every day.
You get older, you learn
to forgive yourself.
I owe him.
He brought us out of hell.
He got us here. I'm alive
because of Victor.
My children are alive
He killed my son.
That man killed my son.
What more is there to say?
I would think you of all
people would understand.
What about my son?
You think I am filling his
head with false faith?
Yes.
He is a remarkable soul.
Openhearted.
Fearless.
The only reason you are here
is because I see the
light inside him.
I know how rare it is.
He understands.
The changed ones are
our responsibility.
He's my responsibility.
If you remain here, you will have
to accept them as Nicholas does.
As we accept them.
It is a new world. I hope you
can see it with new eyes.
What if! can't do that?
Then your son will choose
between his family and the truth
that they don't want to understand.
I want to understand.
I do.
I need to understand.
Come with me.
I don 't like it here.
This is a godless place.
This woman will take
our daughter away from us.
She's a witch.
She may not come near Ofelia.
What will you do?
Look at you.
You're tied to a chair,
and only your madness
is keeping you company.
And you. [still have you.
Did you miss me?
With all my heart.
Did you love me?
Why do you ask?
You know the answer.
You didn't bury me, Daniel.
I've been waiting,
but you didn't come.
l was looking for you.
But I couldn't ﬁnd you.
I'm still waiting.
Please forgive me, darling.
You told me about your whole life.
You confessed your sins to me.
- And / carried this burden.
- Yes.
It was like that.
It is like that.
/ didn't hide anything from you.
I told you about
every single dead person.
Real/y?
What about the one
you're thinking about now?
They were so many.
/ don 't know whom you mean.
The ﬁrst one.
Do you remember him?
Take the weapon, Daniel.
/ told you about the man.
The ﬁrst victim.
What they made me do...
No, darling.
You were the ﬁrst victim.
If your child was hungry,
would you not feed him?
If your child couldn't speak...
would you not speak
for him anyway?
Even if your child
could not love,
would you not love him anyway?
I would.
What wouldn't you do
for your children ?
Nothing.
Celia sent me.
I'm sure she wants more Pozole.
I'll help you, old man.
Hurry, darling.
You know what you have to do.
For Ofelia, for me
and for your peace of mind.
I'm waiting for you.
Free me.
Don't worry about me.
/ found you.
I always knew it.
No.
Daniel!
No...
I'm sorry. He's gone.
He's gone. It's all gone.
Get in! We need to go now.
Nick and Travis are coming back.
We'll be dead
before they get here.
We'll find them. We'll
find them, okay?
Ofelia, please. Come on.
I need you in here, Ofelia.
- Go, now.
- I need you in.
- Madison, let's go.
Mom? Mom!
Madison!
- Madison!
- Mom, we've got to go!
Madison, we need to move, now!
- You can 't do anything!
- Stay here!
Madison!
It's impossible!
Come on!
- Thank God. Nick.
- We need to move!
Nick, get in the truck!
I couldn't find them.
Okay.
Where's Celia?
Come on!
Who did this?
We have to go. We have to
get back in the boat, Nick.
We have to get back to the boat.
She was right about us.
What?
Celia.
She knew what we are.
What are you talking about?
Get in the truck, Nick.
We destroy everything.
They're coming.
We've got to go!
- Madison, we need to move now.
- Nick, get in the truck!
Nick, come on.
Please, don't--
no, Nick.
- Let him go.
- No.
He '8 gone.
Nick...